[Music]
in the 17th century a woman named
Juliana Tofana had a very successful
perfume business for over 50 years she
ran it it sort of ended abruptly when
she was executed for murdering six
hundred men see it wasn't a very good
perfume in fact it was completely
odorless and tasteless and colorless but
as a poison it was the best money could
buy
so women flocked to her in order to
murder their husbands it turns out that
poisoners were valued and feared group
because poisoning a human being is quite
difficult thing the reason is we have
sort of a built-in poison detector you
can see this as early as even a newborn
infants if you are willing to do this
you can take a couple of drops of a
bitter substance or a sour substance and
you'll see that face the tongue stick
out the wrinkled nose as if they're
trying to get rid of what's in their
mouth
this reaction expands into adulthood and
become sort of a full-blown disgust
response no longer just about whether or
not we're about to be poisoned but
whenever there's a threat of physical
contamination from some source but the
face remains strikingly similar it has
expanded more though than just keeping
us away from physical contaminants and
there's a growing body of evidence to
suggest that in fact this emotion of
disgust now influences our moral beliefs
and even our deeply held political
intuitions why this might be the case we
can understand this process by
understanding a little bit about
emotions in general so the basic human
emotions those those kinds of emotions
that we share with all other human
beings exist because they motivate us to
do good things and they keep us away
from doing bad things so by and large
they are good for our survival take the
emotion of fear for instance it keeps us
away from doing things that are really
really risky this photo taken just
before his death is actually no one
reason this photo is interesting is
because most people wouldn't would not
do this and if they did they would not
live to tell it because fear would have
did a long time ago to a natural
predator just like fear offers this
protective benefit disgust seems to do
the same thing except for what disgust
does keeps us away from not things that
might eat us or heights but rather
things that might poison us or give us
disease and make us sick
so one of the features of disgust that
makes it such an interesting emotion is
that it's very very easy to elicit in
fact more so than probably any of the
other basic emotions and so I'm going to
show you that with a couple of images I
could probably make you feel disgust to
turn away I'll tell you when you can
turn back I think you see it every day
right okay come on okay turn back so the
if you didn't look those those probably
made a lot of you in the audience feel
very very disgusted but if you didn't
look and I can tell you about some of
the other things that have been shown
sort of across the world to make people
disgust that things like feces urine
blood rotten flesh these are the sorts
of things that it makes sense for us to
stay away from because they might
actually contaminate us in fact just
having a diseased appearance or odd
sexual acts these things are also things
that give us a lot of disgust Darwin was
probably one of the first scientists to
systematically investigate the human
emotions and he pointed to the universal
nature and the strength of the disgust
response this is an anecdote from his
travels in South America in Tierra del
Fuego in native touch with his finger
some cold preserved meat while I was
eating and plainly showed disgust at its
softness while I felt that her disgust
at my food being touched by a naked
savage though his hands did not appear
dirty he later wrote it's it's okay some
of my best friends are naked savages
it will turns out it's not only
old-timey British scientists were this
squeamish I recently got a chance to
talk to Richard Dawkins for a
documentary and I and I was able to
discuss him a bunch of times here's my
favorite he'd evolved around clip
shipment since or attached to
deep-rooted emotions and reactions that
are hard to jettison overnight so my
favorite part of this clip is that that
Professor Dawkins actually gagged he
goes back in his dad's and we had to do
it three times and all three times he
gagged and and he was really good I
thought he might throw up on me actually
one of the features though of disgust is
not just its universality and its
strength but the way that it works
through association so when one
disgusting thing touches a clean thing
that clean thing becomes disgusting not
the other way around this makes it very
useful as a strategy if you want to
convince somebody that an object or an
individual or an entire social group is
disgusting and should be avoided the
philosopher Martha Nussbaum points this
out in this quote thus throughout
history certain disgust property sly
meanness bad smell stickiness decay
paleness have repeatedly a monotonous ly
been associated with Jews women
homosexuals Untouchables lower-class
people all of those are imagined is
tainted by the dirt of the body let me
give you just some examples of how some
powerful examples of how this has been
used historically this comes from a Nazi
children's book published in 1938 just
look at these guys the last infested
beards the filthy protruding years those
stained fatty clothes Jews often have an
unpleasant Swedish odour if you have a
good nose you can smell the Jews a more
modern example comes from people who try
to convince us that homosexuality is
immoral this is from an anti-gay website
where they said gays are worthy of death
for their vile sex practices they're
like dogs eating their own vomit and
Sal's wallowing in their own feces
these are disgust properties that are
trying to be directly linked to the
social group that you should not like
when we were first investigating the
role of disgust in moral judgment one of
the things we became interested in was
whether or not visa
these sorts of Appeals are more likely
to work in individuals who are more
easily disgusted
so while discussed along with the other
basic emotions are universal phenomena
it just really is true that some people
are easier to discuss than others you
could probably see it in the audience
members when I showed you those
disgusting images the way that we
measured this was by a scale that was
constructed by some other psychologists
they simply asked people across a wide
variety of situations how likely they
are to feel disgust so here are a couple
of examples even if I were hungry I
would not drink a bowl of my favorite
soup of had been stirred by a used but
thoroughly washed flyswatter the agree
or disagree while you're walking through
a tunnel under a railroad track you
smell urine would you be very disgusted
not at all disgusted if you asked enough
of these you can get a general overall
score of disgust sensitivity it turns
out that this score is actually
meaningful when you bring people into
the laboratory and you ask them if
they're willing to engage in safe but
disgusting behaviors like eating
chocolate that's been baked to look like
dog poop or in this case eating some
mealworms that are perfectly healthy but
pretty gross your score on that scale
actually predicts whether or not you'll
be willing to engage in those behaviors
the first time that we set out to
collect data on this and associated with
political or moral beliefs we found a
general pattern this is with a
psychologist CL in bar and Paul bloom
that in fact across three studies we
kept finding that people who reported
that they were easily disgusted also
reported that they were more politically
conservative another way to say this
though is that people who were very
liberal are very hard to discuss
in a more recent follow-up study we were
able to look at a much greater sound
much larger sample in this case this is
nearly 30,000 u.s. respondents and we
find the same pattern as you can see
people who are on the very conservative
side of answering the political
orientation scale are also much more
likely to report that they're easily
disgusted this data set also allowed us
to statistically control for a number of
things that we knew were both related to
political orientation and to discuss
sensitivity so we were able to control
for gender age income education even
basic personality variables and the
result stays the same when we actually
looked at not just self-reported
political orientation but voting
behavior we were able to look
geographically across the nation what we
found was that in in regions in which
people reported high levels of disgust
sensitivity McCain got more votes so it
not only predicted self-reported
political orientation but actual voting
behavior and also we were able with this
sample to look across the world 121
different countries we asked the same
questions and as you can see this is a
121 countries collapse into 10 different
geographical regions no matter where you
look what this is plotting is the size
of the relationship between disgust
sensitivity and political orientation
and no matter where we looked we saw
very similar effect other labs have
actually looked at this as well using
different measures of discussants
nativities so rather than asking people
how easily disgusted they are they hook
people up to physiological measures in
this case skin conductance and what
they've demonstrated is that people who
report being more politically
conservative are also more
physiologically aroused when you show
them disgusting images like the ones
that I showed you
interestingly what they also showed in a
finding that we kept getting in the in
our previous studies as well was that
one of the strongest influences here is
that individuals who are very disgust
sensitive not only are more likely to
report being politically conservative
but they're also very much more opposed
to gay marriage and homosexuality and
pretty much a lot of the socio moral
issues in the sexual domain so
physiological arousal predicted in this
study attitudes toward gay marriage but
even with all these data linking disgust
sensitivity and political orientation
one of the questions that remains is
what is the causal link here is it the
case that discussed really is shaping
political and moral beliefs we have to
resort to experimental methods to answer
this and so what we can do is actually
bring people into lab and discuss them
and compare them to a control group that
hasn't been disgusted it turns out that
over the past five years a number of
researchers have done this and by and
large the results have all been the same
that when people are feeling disgust
their attitudes shift toward the right
end of the political spectrum toward
more moral conservatism as well so this
is whether you use a foul odor a bad
taste from film clips from post hypnotic
suggestions of disgust images like the
ones I've shown you even just reminding
people that disease is prevalent and
they should be wary of it and wash up
right to keep clean these all have
similar effects on judgment let me just
give you an example from a recent study
that we conducted we asked participants
to just simply give us their opinion of
a variety of social groups and we either
made the room smell gross or not when
the room smelled gross what we saw was
that individuals actually reported more
negative attitudes toward gay men
disgust didn't influence attitudes
toward all the other social groups that
we asked including African Americans the
elderly it really came down to the
attitudes they had toward gay men in
another set of studies we actually
simply reminded people this was at a
time when the swine flu was going around
we reminded people that in order to
prevent the spread of the flu that they
ought to wash their hands for some
participants we actually had them take
questionnaires next to a sign that
reminded them to wash their hands and
what we found was that just taking a
questionnaire next to this hand
sanitizer and reminder made individuals
report being more politically
conservative and when we asked them a
variety of questions about the rightness
or wrongness of certain acts what we
also found was that simply being
reminded that they ought to wash their
hand made them more morally conservative
in particular when we asked them
questions about sort of taboo but fairly
harmless sexual practices just being
reminded
to wash their hand made them think that
they were more morally wrong let me give
you an example of what I mean by
harmless but taboo sexual practice we
gave them scenarios one of them said a
man is house-sitting for his grandmother
when his grandmother's away he has sex
with his girlfriend on his grandma's bed
in another one we said a woman enjoys
masturbating with her favorite teddy
bear cuddled next to her people find
these to be more morally abhorrent if
they've been reminded to wash their
hands okay the fact that emotions
influence our judgment should come as no
surprise I mean that's part of how
emotions work they not only motivate you
to behave in certain ways but they
change the way you think in the case of
disgust what is a little bit more
surprising is the scope of this
influence it makes perfect sense that
it's a very good emotion for us to have
that disgust would make me change the
way that I perceive the physical world
whenever contamination is possible it
makes less sense that an emotion that
was built to prevent me from ingesting
poison should predict who I'm going to
vote for in the upcoming presidential
election the question of whether disgust
ought to influence our moral and
political judgments certainly has to be
complex and might depend on on exactly
what judgments were talking about and as
a scientist we have to conclude
sometimes that the scientific method is
just ill-equipped to answer these sorts
of questions one thing that I am fairly
certain about is at the very least what
we can do with this research is point to
what questions we ought to ask in the
first place thank you
[Applause]
you